# Project-90
11.998 MW bundle of Small Scale Hydro Power project by Government of Arunachal Pradesh

Applied Baseline Methodology:
AMS-I.D.: “Grid connected renewable electricity
generation”, Version 18

The proposed project activity with title under UCR “11.998 MW bundle of Small Scale Hydro Power
project by Government of Arunachal Pradesh”, comprises of 19 Micro and Small Scale hydel projects
in the state of Arunachal Pradesh in India. The project is an operational activity with continuous
reduction of GHG, currently being applied under “Universal Carbon Registry” (UCR). These projects
are run-of river projects.

The project activity aims to harness kinetic energy of water (renewable source) to generate electricity.
The net generated electricity from the project activity is delivered to the villages in the vicinity,
through a mix of National and Regional transmission networks and will also supply power to different
commercial customers in the region. In the pre-project scenario, electricity delivered to the grid by
the project activity would have otherwise been generated by the operation of fossil fuel-based gridconnected power plants and by the addition of new fossil fuel-based generation sources in the grid.
Currently, NEWNE grid is connected to large numbers of fossil fuel-based power plants. Hence,
project activity is displacing the gross electricity generation i.e., 9,232 MWh from the NEWNE grid.
The project activity doesn’t involve any GHG emission sources. The annual and the total CO2e
emission reduction by the project activity over the defined monitoring period is as per Annexure I.

The project activity involves various technologies of hydro turbine generators with internal electrical
lines connecting the project activity with local evacuation facility. The aggregated installed capacity
of the bundle of power plants sums up to 11.998 MW (i.e., 11,998 kW).
The Project activity comprises of the following different civil structures, combinedly known as hydro
power plant. The kinetic energy of water flowing from river is converted into mechanical energy
using hydraulic turbine, which is then converted into electrical energy using generator.

The water
used in this process is again diverted to the river stream through proper arrangements.
Below is the description of different components of a hydro power plant.

Diversion structure (trench weir): A diversion structure is required across the Nallah for
diverting its water for power generation.

 The Nallah bed consists of pebbles, gravels and boulders.

Intake/Power Channel: The water fed from Desilting tank is led to tunnel inlet portal through a
Rectangular R.C.C channel also known as Intake or Power Channel.

Desilting Tank: A Desilting chamber is considered necessary to remove silt particles to minimize
the abrasion effects on the turbine runners.

Penstock: Water from Forebay is being taken to the Powerhouse to run hydraulic turbine through
pressurized penstock pipe running from Forebay tank.

Power House Building: Power house building is a simple structure housing the generating units,
auxiliary equipment, control panels and suitable outlet for tail water discharge.

Tail Race Channel: Turbine discharge shall be disposed to river through the separate tailrace
channel.

Sr. No
Project Name Capacity (in kW) C.O.Y
1. Tato MHS (2 x 50 kW + 2 x 20 kW) 50 2004-05

2. Mechuka MHS (6 x 25 kW) 250 2005-06

3.  Yapak Nallah MHS (2 x 100 kW) 200 2005-06
 
4. Liromoba MHS (2 x 1000 kW) 2000 2008-09
 
5. Kamba SHP (3 x 2000 kW) 6000 2008-09
 
6. Yingko Sikong MHS at Rapum (1 x 50 kW) 50 2009-10
 
7. Krawti Nallah MHS (2 x 50 kW) 100 2009-10
 
8. Teepani MHS (2 x 250 kW) 500 2009-10
    
9. Tinning MHS (2 x 25 kW) 60 2010-11
    
10. Solegamang MHS (1 x 50 kW) 50 2011-12
    
11. Jongkey Nallah MHS (1 x 50 kW) 25 2011-12
    
12. Chicklong MHS (2 x 75 kW) 150 2011-12
    
13. Sirikorang MHS (2 x 250 kW) 500 2013-14
    
14. Kachopani MHS (2 x 100 kW) 200 2014-15
    
15. Namchik MHS Ph-II (2 x 150 KW) 300 2019-20
    
16. Tissue MHS Ph-II (2 x 250 kW) 500 2020-21
    
17. Sisir Nallah MHS (8 kW) 8 2021
    
18. Namchik Phase - I MHS (2 x 250 kW) 500 2021
    
19. MATINALLAH MHS (500 + 50 kW) 550 2013

____________
Monitoring Period Number: 02

Duration of this monitoring Period: 1 year (first and last days included (01/01/2022 to 31/12/2022)
________________
MP-2  CoUs issue date 06/03/2024

